hi everybody I know it's late in the day
I hopefully go quick with this so my
name is Brennan we work at query we do
distributed data set version control I'm
that popular
thank you yeah so we worked on this
thing we've been using this inside of
query for a long time do you think is
basically just our sink for DAGs and for
us this was something we had to build
just to sort of like solve a very
specific problem inside of our stack and
today what I want to present to you is
an effort to sort of take some of what
we learned and ideally share it back
with the community so this is our
problem just I have stuff in my IPF's
Reid fest ipfs repo and I know where I
need it to go just put this over there I
don't care how you do it I don't want to
ask you how it happens it's just pure a
pure B go over there I don't I'm mostly
there like things inside of the D web
that are less desirable when we're
building products we have this like
content resolution times brother truckin
nat traversal issues like just like
stuff that gets in the way of being able
to just say I have a thing I want to go
over there I want to go as fast as
humanly possible and so for us the thing
that we're trying to look for is just
this point to point so we've got a
couple of differences that we have from
like traditional amazing that I'm saying
traditional in ipfs like bits a lot base
like content resolution I like speaking
to this crowd I was like yeah that's the
new norm and so we're talking about just
point-to-point setups and so we're gonna
leverage the fact that we know we have a
very different problem set from bit swap
where we now just we can sort of take
advantage of a different set of
constraints and solve for some different
solutions so things we do in desync that
are different from your traditional bit
swap movement is we set up the
conversation beforehand this is very
similar to our sync we leverage blocks
for sync because if you look at the
arsenic algorithm we have there's
actually a rolling checksum calculation
instead of arcing so you're doing
on-the-fly content addressing to do our
sync properly
but we already we're talking about
sinking a miracle DAGs so we don't have
that problem at all we can just start
start with the blocks themselves we
don't want to send stuff we already have
so we want that conversation to sort of
happen beforehand and we don't want to
duplicate stuff over the wire if we can
avoid it because again we want to be
fast and then we want to just fall back
to multiple methods if necessary there
are dirty secrets in our initial
implementation of do you think it was
originally and still to this day
operates over HTTP so we actually like
take blocks out of your repo put them
over HTTP send them to a HTTP server and
then store them in an IP FS tag on the
other side and that actually works
way better than it sounds and we'll get
into why in a second but yeah we want to
fail early cool I got to move quicker so
we did this as an IP FS plugin which i
think is just to like sort of we wanted
with this in the loop you to be because
it's that's where it belongs we have
this like this is generally the sort of
form factor which is just decent push
this to that put this the ID over there
hopefully this works I recorded a demo
of it so on the Left we have one person
using oh yeah well I'll just talk to
this as we go so I'm I'm Alice on the
Left Bob and Alice as usual so I'm gonna
pin I have nothing pinned on this side
and then on the right side I'm Bob with
that Kerr ID and I have something pinned
okay cool and I want to push something
from Bob to Alice so I'm gonna run IGFs
daemon oh I'm gonna get it wrong and
then I'm gonna type my PFS daemon and
then you're gonna see something fun in
new there's this D sync plug-in started
because this new plug-in API is really
cool you should totally check it out if
it exists and then we have a really
simple command-line wrapper which is
just like desync and then do you think
allow so I have to bring some trust to
this so I'm gonna say I want to allow
Bob to send me stuff that's an important
caveat so Bob's now on the allowed list
of Alice and so I'm just gonna say push
this to that and we're done
and so that figured it all out and moved
it across that was over lip p2p it was
also on my local machine so like latency
simulated in your brain but yeah that's
how distinct works we so there's oh yeah
I have to click this but there are some
like issues here this is where the code
is living so you can check it out but
this is mainly approval concepts
I had to fork a PFS to add something to
core API that is should be discussed
basically we needed access to Lib p2p
inside of the plug-in we got to get to
the host which is a bit of a question
mark whether that should even be okay so
for me this like thank you but also this
invites a really interesting
conversation about what plugins should
do and I'm really excited to have that
so if you want to do an uncommon en will
do it on confer if you don't want to do
that don't talk to me and or ask me how
my day is going I don't know anyways
that's it thank you